---
title: "Leaving Big Tech Behind"
date: 2019-09-07T14:39:28-04:00
description: ""
draft: true
images: []
tags: []
---

For the last 5 months I've finally been working on the 3rd phase of a project I started back in 2017 with my switch away from the iPhone. Some would call it "de-Googling," some would call it switching ecosystems but I prefer to go back to calling it what I set out to do in the beginning. Rather than leaving any one company, I'm simply doing by best at leaving big tech behind all-together. I'm not doing this because of any big conspiracy or political motivation, nor am I doing it to hide from the world or anything like that. Instead I'm doing it simply because it is the right thing for me.

Why leave big tech behind?

If I'm being honest I can't deny just how easy a tech ecosystem is. Whether Google or Apple everything really does work well together and is easy to setup. For a long time, at least back to the 90s anyway, this type of simplicity was my ultimate goal. At first I just wanted to finish work on one computer and pick it up on another. As time went on this, of course, extended first to my phone and then my tablet where it all finally started to come together in the Apple ecosystem. I could work on a document on my computer, pick it up later on my iPad and, finally, review it on my phone when the situation called for it. It _seemed_ perfect.

The problem is convenience has a price, a few prices actually. First, at least with Apple, is the direct cost of Apple hardware and services. Going back to 2012 it seemed worth it as Apple had the only really mature ecosystem and the hardware was top notch. Fast forward a few years though and, while the ecosystem has stayed relatively steady, they no longer have the best hardware, especially for the price. My last Mac was a 2016 15" MBP with touchbar and all the other bells and whistles and it was a piece of junk for the bargain price of around $3,000. Lock-in, in my opinion, has made us complacent where we'll still buy these machines simply because we think they're the only things we can work with.

While the direct cost of an ecosystem is high, I can't deny that I have been priveledged enough that it hasn't historically been a problem for me. In my case, the cost I worry more about is the ownership of my data. There are many stories of people having their lives cut out from under them for running afoul of a policy with a big tech company. Imagine turning on your computer one morning and finding out you could no longer get into your email or documents or even your phone or other data. As we consolidate more of our data in these ecosystems that threat is real and even backups can't aleviate all of it. What good is your Google Doc without a Google account or your Apple email address if you no longer have an Apple account? Think it's far fetched? It isn't. Spend a few minutes searching the web and you'll find countless stories of it happening to all kinds of people, some of which to no fault of their own. Escaping big tech means escaping these data traps. Sure, a service might still be shut out but now any single service, with few exceptions, is something I can work still work around. Email host locks me out? Just redirect my domain to another one. There are few things that would be a disaster for me as would losing all of it in one shot. In the financial world it's called diversification. The fact that more people don't do it with their digital lives is truly a frightening thing.

Beyond price and data ownership there is privacy. Depending on who you believe the Apple ecosystem might be better here than Google, at least for now, but it doesn't change the profile each are making on you with the data collected. Our communications, browsing, physical location and more can be a powerful weapon against us when put together. I'm not talking about ads for products either. I'm talking about how the constant exposure to the algorithms used by big tech can change our behavior in ways few of us really understand. Take, for example, one of the most popular ways nearly all of us have experienced this over the last few years, politics. I know few who haven't fought online with a family member or someone else over politics. It's real and it hurts when someone we've known our whole lives suddenly cuts us out of theirs because we didn't vote for the right person. This polarization didn't happen in a vacuum. It was driven by algorithms looking for and amplifying base beliefs to a point that wouldn't have been possible even 20 years ago. Politics isn't the only way this manifests either. From insurance to purchasing and more our profiles are being used to decide what we get, how much we pay for it and how we use the products and services we interact with every day.

Stage 1: Breaking out of the Apple Ecosystem