---
title: Monday, 15 July, 2024
date: 2024-07-15T12:21:22+00:00
categories:
  - Personal
tags:
  - Flying
  - Home
  - Reflection
---

I'm considering changing the format of this site a bit to separate these regular posts from the deeper content I write [far less than I used to]. Perhaps that would be the best way to manage the two very different styles of writing.

It was a great weekend though, for the most part. After the news cycle went to hell on Saturday we decided to break our vow and go to our favorite bar to get away from it all and that turned out to be a very wise decision. I've been much better at not drinking lately (not too hard when the stress of life calms down and I don't really like it anyway) but there are moments when a few beers with friends is a very good thing.

We also went out on a bit of a date night on Friday, something we need to do much more of. Joy met me at the office and we walked to the Guinness Brewery a couple of blocks away. I love how easy it is to find Guinness Zero (their non-alcoholic version) these days, but I do wish they had it on draught at more places. It was a much needed break after a long first week at the new job.

Finally I actually managed to be incredibly productive over the weekend. We solved some insurance issues, took care of bills and other paperwork and I even managed to finish my Certified Flight Instructor (CFI) renewal. The CFI is the only US pilot license that actually expires so every two years I need to do an online course to renew it. It isn't hard, but it is a time consuming and I'm grateful to have it done.

Now here we are. Let's kick this new week off on a good note!